Data Collection Notes - Friday, June 26, 2025

(Sophia) 

The camera and tripod were positioned near the approximate center of the Fels Planetarium at the Franklin Institute. 
During data collection, the planetarium dome displayed a projected image that appeared spatially uniform in spectral 
content.

The camera was oriented toward the zenith (the center of the dome) and remained fixed in tilt throughout the recording. 
To sample the projected illumination across different portions of the dome, the camera was slowly rotated clockwise 
about its optical axis. Four complete 360° rotations were performed over the course of the recording.

The first approximately four minutes of recording were collected with no camera movement. This stationary period was 
included to allow the camera's automatic gain control (AGC) to stabilize and adapt to the ambient luminance conditions 
within the planetarium.

Following this stabilization period, the camera was rotated through a full revolution approximately once per minute. 
Rotations were performed in discrete increments of roughly 45°, with each step occurring every 6–7 seconds. One exception 
was the first rotation, which required approximately 1.5 minutes to complete and was performed using less regular angular 
increments. At the start of each rotation, the north side of the planetarium corresponded approximately to the bottom of 
the camera field of view.

The camera's pointing direction remained centered on the zenith throughout the recording; only rotational orientation 
about the optical axis was changed between positions.


Calibration Notes (Geoff):

I obtained three measurements of the luminance of the dome. At the zenith (center of the camera image) the luminance was 
25.63 cd/m2. Two measurements (corresponding to the initial center bottom of the camera image and to the center left side 
of the initial image) obtained at ~20° elevation from the horizon (so, 70° eccentricity in the camera image) were 22.56 and 22.64. 
This is an average change of 3 cd/m2 over 70°. I unfortunately did not obtain a measurement in between, so we will have to assume 
a linear fall-off of intensity with eccentricity of about 0.0428 cd/m2/deg as we move away from the zenith.